If a serial killer’s soul inhabited a toy doll
you bought for your son, what would you do?
In this How to Beat video, we’ll follow the
Barclays, see if we can make better decisions,
and ultimately attempt to beat Chucky in Child's
Play. If you think you have a better way,
let me know in the comments! If
you like these how to beat videos,
consider liking and subscribing.
We start out following Charles Lee Ray,
a serial killer on the run from homicide detective
Mike Norris. His getaway driver, Eddie Caputo,
panics when the cops show up and takes off
without him. Should have hired Baby instead.
He gets cornered into a toy store and
takes a shot to the right lung.
This store can’t be that big. Shouting your
monologue like that should make it easy for
Mike to find and kill you. They obviously
upped the reverb in the audio for effect,
because there’s no way Mike would be that
clueless as to the origin of Charle’s voice.
He should be able to just run up
on him and get to blasting.
Bro, seriously, how can you not find the one
guy yelling like a maniac in an empty store
at night and take him down. Look at this
shot, the building is not that big.
Mr. Magoo is too busy getting turned around in
the tiny toy store to stop Charles from casting
some voodoo spells which transfer his soul out
of his dying body and into a Good Guys doll.
Yah, there’s no way Mike could have
anticipated that move though.
I know this guy is a bit unhinged at the moment,
but transferring your soul into a ‘sterile’,
plastic doll seems like a fresh hell you would
want no part of. Guess it’s better than the
witch in Friend Request having to hang herself
over a bonfire in order to transfer her soul
into the black mirror, computer dimension.
I don’t know, which would you rather your
soul be transferred into, a black mirror
dimension, or a Chucky doll? Personally,
I'd just take the L and go out guns blazing.
The soul transference causes a massive explosion
sending Mike flying ass first
through the toy store.
The morning after the incident, we start following
Andy on his birthday. The only thing more
disturbing than his breakfast is his infatuation
with the Good Guys doll. It just seems weird to
me. Action figures and little green army men make
sense. But a cabbage patch kids doll nearly the
size of a 6 year old would, i’d think, be creepy
to a kid. I’m just glad that nowadays you can buy
a kid a tablet with an internet connection and
be good. All these parents bitching about their
kids being inseparable from their phones need
to realize that their alternative could be a
bunch of creepy dolls left all over the house that
may or may not come to life and murder you.
Andy’s mom is struggling to make ends meet,
and can’t afford the $100 price to buy him
his favorite psycho doll at retail stores. Who
the fuck would pay $100 for that doll. I’d pay
$100 to not have that doll in my possession.
Alas, she doesn’t want to disappoint Andy,
so to make his birthday special she
resorts to buying a doll off a suspect
homeless man who no doubt looted it.
What’re the odds that he snagged the one with
Charles Lee Ray inside it. Actually, the explosion
probably destroyed most of the other dolls,
with the voodoo magic protecting the Chucky one.
So fairly likely considering he’d want to steal
the one undamaged one.
Now that I think of it,
this is like the Turboman from hell.
Andy’s mom has to pull a second shift,
so she has her friend Maggie babysit him. While
babysitting, Andy tells her that Chucky wants to
watch the 9 o’clock news. Shouldn’t a six year
old be smart enough to realize that something
is off about this doll. Guess not.
The real nightmare begins after Maggie puts
Andy to bed, and then finds Chucky watching the
news on Eddie Caputo’s escape from prison.
Disconcerting, but the only reasonable explanation
a sane person would conclude is that Andy put him
there. She puts Chucky back, kicks up on the
couch, but then she hears and sees something
sneak past her out of the corner of her eye.
Hmm, must have been my imagination. She then
hears another noise in the hallway. As
far as she’d think, it’s Andy staying
up and playing with his stupid doll.
Side note: I hate couches like that with
your backside exposed, anyone can sneak up on you
and slip some piano wire around your neck.
Like i’ve talked about in previous
videos, following strange sounds like this
is like following an evil jelly
bean trail right into a trap.
At this point, i’d yell at Andy to stop
fucking around unless he wants me to get
the belt out. This is a pretty common sense
move. Andy would come out of his bedroom,
at which point Maggie would realize that
he didn’t open the front door or make the
noises in the living room. At which point she
should grab Andy, leave the apartment, and call
the cops because there may be an intruder.
Maggie decides to tiptoe into the kitchen where a
jar of flour was knocked over, and
immediately lets her guard down.
What? That jar didn’t knock itself over.
She then hears another noise behind some flowers.
How Chucky made those noises when he
wasn’t over there doesn’t make sense,
but Maggie falls for the setup and takes
a tiny toy hammer to the face.
This is why you need a dog. There’s no way Chucky
could have snuck around and gotten the jump on
her like this with a shepherd around.
Also, whoever designed those windows needs
to be fired. There’s no way it’s legal
to have windows that are that fragile
in place on a 10th story apartment.
Karen clocks out and heads home to find cops and
ambulances everywhere. She proceeds to walk
straight past the crime scene tape, past all
the cops, and literally walks right into the crime
scene without anyone stopping her or noticing. I’m
pretty sure that’s not allowed, because she could
be fucking up all the evidence, but okay.
Detective Mike Norris is on the case, back
on duty not a day after being involved in
a fatal shootout and getting blown up
in a freak toy store explosion.
He ascertains that she was hit in the face by a
toy hammer from a child sized person standing on
the counter, as evidenced by the footprints.
Obviously Andy murdered Maggie because she
wouldn’t let him stay up late watching cartoons
and eating sugary bowls of cereal.
Sure there are footprints on the counter, but if
you took a second to check the sizing of Andy’s
shoes, you’d realize they didn’t match. Kid was
probably playing with the doll on the counter,
then someone broke in thinking that nobody was
home since Karen had to pull a second shift.
When the intruder realized Maggie
was home, a tussle occurred and
Maggie got shoved out the window.
Karen flips out when Mike suggests Andy was a
suspect, and orders the police to clear out of her
home. I don’t think that’s how these things work
lady. I think you need to go get a hotel room for
the night, while the detectives investigate the
crime scene and question witnesses.
Oh, you mean like a homicide detective
trying to solve the murder of your
friend. Yah, they’re so pesky.
At the end of the day, it doesn’t matter
because nobody will suspect the doll as
being the murderer. There’s not much Andy
can do because Chucky will have threatened
him with death if he tries anything.
Karen sits Andy down to try to find out what
happened. Andy says that Chucky told him his real
name is Charles Lee Ray. Your son saying his doll
calls himself by a infamous serial killer's name
would be off putting, but it’s possible she didn’t
see the news and doesn’t recognize the name.
What an absolute savage. He probably should have
just kept his mouth shut on that one.
Karen leaves the room and tries to snoop on
Andy’s conversations with his doll. She’s got the
right idea, but her execution is flawed. The light
behind her casts a shadow into the room, which
betrays her presence. It shouldn’t be hard to
realize you’re casting a shadow and Andy could see
that you’re still there, in which case he won’t
reveal whatever weird shit he’s up to. It’s like
trying to spy out your window at night with the
lights on behind you. I guess you can’t expect the
jewelry saleswoman at Macy’s to be tactical.
If she was a better spy she might have been
able to overhear something. Still unlikely, as
Chucky would be quietly whispering to Andy.
The next morning Karen drops Andy off at school,
but under the threat of murder and ending up
like Maggie, Andy takes Chucky to where Chucky
thinks Eddie Caputo is hiding.
I get that Andy is a six year old,
so this strategy might not have dawned on him.
But he could go along with the plan initially,
grab a lighter from home, then take Chucky to
a public place and set him on fire. If Chucky
fought back, everyone nearby would witness a
doll coming to life and help Andy destroy it.
If Chucky did nothing, the doll would simply
burn to ashes along with Charle’s soul.
I’m starting to think the Good Guys doll
company is brainwashing these kids through
subliminal messaging in their shows. How
else could you explain Andy running into
a dilapidated ghetto building that
he just heard gunshots coming from,
likely from the escaped fugitive Chucky told him
he was trying to find, to rescue a doll that was
possessed by a serial killer who murdered his
babysitter and had threatened to kill him if
he didn’t do what it said. Just run home.
Chucky rigs up a classic homemade gas bomb with
the oven, lays another evil Jelly Bean trail of
strange noises, and Eddy falls for the bait.
If there was that much gas in the building, you’d
think Eddie would have smelled it and bounced.
Or at least not have kicked open the door to the
kitchen and started blasting away at shadows.
Good thing Andy wised up and walked away
from the dope house before it exploded.
Somehow this six year old boy became the primary
suspect for the murder, and with no evidence they
sentence him to a psychiatric hospital. Poor Andy,
he’s just getting shit on from both sides.
Karen takes the Chucky doll back home to
interrogate it. From her perspective, she’s
clearly losing her mind. Somewhat understandable
given the events that have unfolded.
As tempting as it is to put the doll in the
oven and crank the temp up, she’s desperate
to prove her son is innocent. Destroying
the doll wouldn’t help Andy’s case.
If she wanted to prove Andy was innocent
and thought that the doll might be alive
because again, she’s losing it mentally, then
why not force the doll to make a move while
you were in the police station? All you’d need to
do is start ripping its legs and arms off.
Karen picks up the box Chucky came in, and the
batteries fall out. Now it’s getting creepy.
She then hesitantly picks the doll up to check
if there were batteries preinstalled.
It’s not a 100% confirmation that the
doll is alive, but it’s pretty god damn
close. Close enough that she should just
destroy it the next chance she gets.
I would not be sticking my head under the
couch like that, you’re just asking to get
a toy knife shoved in your eye. She should
just flip the couch over then grab him.
Karen wises up, lights the fireplace and threatens
to throw him in unless he says something.
I’m not sure what she was expecting. Of course
if Chucky was real like she was trying to prove,
he would be forced to fight her when
she threatened him like that. I don’t
think she was anticipating him being that strong,
but she did suspect that he murdered Maggie, which
would indicate that he had some level of strength,
which would mean that he might be more
difficult to handle than she’d think.
The general idea here is that you don’t threaten
to kill someone unless you’re in a definitively
advantageous position to carry out the killing.
Karen wasn’t. She shouldn’t have revealed her
intentions before securing her position of power
over him. Basically, she should’ve taken him over
to the kitchen to ‘read the instructions on
the box he came in’ and then stuffed him in
the oven. From there she could threaten him
and he wouldn’t be able to fight back.
Throwing chucky across the room was
a dumb move too. The fireplace was
literally right next to you, why not throw
him in there if it was so easy.
Chucky’s power comes from his ability to surprise
his prey. Knowing he can’t win a fight with her
head to head, he runs off. Karen could just
let the doll go, nobody will believe her
and she’s not equipped to deal with that kind of
threat. She will still be able to get Andy back,
because with no actual evidence condemning Andy
as a murderer, they can’t keep him locked up
in a psych ward for long. Still, Chucky
murdered Maggie and ruined Andy’s life.
Revenge is running through her veins.
If she wants any chance at finding Chucky,
she needs to find out more about Charles Lee Ray,
his home, his motivations, his friends and family.
She goes to the police station again, but Mike’s
no help, so she decides her next best option is
to wander back alleys by herself in search of
the creepy peddler who sold her the doll.
Unsurprisingly, that peddler’s less than
empathetic about her situation.
She got lucky the detective actually gave a
shit about her to follow her and make sure she
was safe. This movie easily could have turned
into a I Spit on Your Grave crossover.
Mike reveals to her that he killed Charles Lee
Ray, but that Charles had been yelling voodoo
chants before getting struck by lightning. He
still doesn’t believe the doll is alive yet,
but it’s weird enough that he heads back to the
police station to reopen the investigation.
Let’s do some bad detective
work from Mike’s POV.
He fatally wounded Charles Lee Ray in a toy store,
but before he died he was yelling voodoo chants.
On a clear night sky, storm clouds rolled in above
and lightning hit Charles directly. You later
found him next to a Good Guys doll. You just found
out that Karen bought one of those same dolls from
a peddler who looted it from that same store
the morning after the incident. Then that night,
Karen’s friend was murdered. The next day,
Eddie Caputo, the man he swore to get back,
got murdered as well. And then there’s
Mike, the other man he swore to get back at.
If that doesn’t make you a bit
paranoid I don’t know what will.
On his way back to his car, Mike makes the
rookie mistake of getting into his car without
checking the backseat, you’d think he would
consider everything we just talked about.
Now Mike has a killer doll trying to stab
his balls through the car seat while he’s
going 40 miles per hour. There’s no way
this ends well. To make matters worse,
the brake pedal on his cheap piece of shit car
falls off while Chucky jams the accelerator.
Mike spins the car out safely, but then stupidly
straightens the wheel out which enables the car to
gain lethal levels of speed again. If he just
held the steering wheel cranked to the side,
the car wouldn’t be able to gain any
speed. He’d just be doing donuts. Of
course that still leaves the problem of Chucky,
but without the threat of a high speed collision
he can focus on fucking the doll up.
This mistake made the car uncontrollable and
a crash inevitable. I always hate these scenes
in movies where the person is floundering in
the upside down car while being attacked.
Inside an upside down car is the worst
position you could possibly be in. I know he
just crashed and is probably disoriented, but
he seems to be with it, so he should’ve
been able to crawl his ass out ASAP.
Even though he was disoriented and jacked up
on adrenaline from the crash, Mike is able to
land a shot on Chucky's shoulder, forcing him
to flee to his voodoo doctor for help.
His voodoo teacher answers that the more time he
spends in that body, the more human he becomes,
and that eventually he will be stuck in that body
forever if he doesn’t transfer his soul out of it
soon. This is why you want to read the fine print
on the voodoo rituals before using them.
Naturally Chucky wants answers as to how
to transfer his soul out of the doll,
but John refuses, declaring him an
abomination that must be stopped.
John, John, John. Why would you
reveal your intentions prematurely?
You know you are dealing with a magic doll
possessed by the soul of a serial killer,
who you think needs to be stopped. Of
course he’s going to get pissed and
attack you when you refuse to help him.
You should have just gone along with trying
to help him, while plotting
out a way to defeat him.
He’s right you know. Telling a serial killer
the location of your personal voodoo doll was
flat out idiotic. Why even have a voodoo
doll like that around in the first place.
That’s like wearing a bomb vest and keeping
the detonator on the counter. At least
put it in a vault for christ's sake.
John’s stupidity leads to him getting
tortured into telling Chucky that in order
to get out of the doll, he needs to swap
souls with the first person he revealed
himself too, which would be Andy.
John screwed up here again.
By giving Chucky the answer,
he just gave up his only bargaining chip
and immediately became expendable.
Karen and Mike show up just after the stabbing.
John holds out long enough to mutter that he was
an asshole and told Chucky to swap souls with her
child. He does also mention that the only way to
kill Chucky was to shoot him through the heart he
was forming. They don’t have time to fact check
this, but it sounds plausible.
Jesus they really put a six year old
in a derelict psychiatric prison because
they thought it wasn’t healthy for a six
year old to have an imaginary friend after
the kid suffered immense psychological trauma
from witnessing a murder. Yah this prison is
definitely a healthier way to rehabilitate him
than seeing a therapist 2 times a week.
Andy spots Chucky coming for him, and after
seeing what he’s capable of, knows that this is
bad news. He stages a classic prison escapee move
by putting pillows under the sheets to fake
Chucky out so he could grab the keys and run.
While not guaranteed to work because he couldn’t
have relied on Chucky dropping the keys,
and Chucky could have entered through the
window bars, it’s still a pretty good plan,
especially for a six year old. Not sure
there was much else he could have done.
Andy’s kind of screwed regardless. There’s nowhere
to run, so the psycho doctor catches him and tries
to inject him with a tranquilizer.
Chucky also catches up with them and
gives the doctor a taste of his
own electro-shock therapy.
While Chucky is getting hot and bothered watching
the doctor get electrocuted to death, Andy escapes
back to his home. This is such an obvious move
that Chucky would anticipate. I still think
going to a public location surrounded by people
and pay phoning his mom would be best.
Sure enough, Chucky’s right on his tail.
Haha I just had to include that.
Andy would know by now that Chucky is actually
pretty strong, and he probably wouldn’t win a
physical altercation against him. However, hiding
in a closet is a terrible idea, because it’s
literally the first place anyone checks.
Andy opts for a frontal engagement with his
toy bat. Bro, why not grab a
knife from the kitchen.
Doesn’t really matter though, Andy’s not going
to be outsmarting what is essentially a mid
30 year old serial killer that has much
more experience hunting humans.
Karen and Mike better hustle their asses up or
Andy’s going to swap bodies with Chucky.
Dude just shoot the lock, that weak ass
shouldering is wasting precious time.
They bust in and throw the doll across the room,
then both proceed to ignore it like it isn’t
capable of murdering them. Again, stop throwing
your enemies and giving them the opportunity to
re engage. You especially don’t want Chucky
escaping and coming back to kill you at a
later date when your guard is down.
And again, stop bending down to check
under the beds and making yourself
vulnerable. Just flip the bed.
Who’d have thought Karen owned a gat. She lands
a solid hit on Chucky’s leg, but her gun jams so
she tosses it on the floor and runs.
The gun jamming was likely caused by her
limp wristing it. Common for inexperienced
shooters. Basically, she didn’t hold a stiff
enough grip on the pistol frame to prevent
it from traveling rearward while the slide
was cycling back and forth. Thus the action
couldn’t generate enough opposing force to
properly eject and seat a new round.
She didn’t have the time or experience to
remediate it before Chucky charged again, but
throwing it on the ground infront of him was
incredibly stupid. Not only did you give up your
only weapons which you could have run off with and
cleared by pulling the mag out and cycling the
action, but Chucky could have picked the pistol
up, cleared the jam, and used it against you.
It’s a good thing Chucky’s stupid too,
because he runs past the gun to try to
physically fight people way stronger
than him. Karen overpowers him and this time,
manages to throw him in the fireplace.
There’s no reason you shouldn’t have tried
to hold the gate shut so Chucky fully melted
down and didn’t run through your living
room lighting everything on fire.
Karen and Andy both leave the doll to go check
on Mike, which is a mistake. Mike only got a cut
and bopped in the head with a toy bat, he
wasn’t fatally wounded in any way.
This serial killer doll is
possessed by strong voodoo magic,
so there’s no way you can be sure it’s dead after
burning it up a bit. The only way to make sure
it won’t come back to kill you is to put it back
in the fireplace and melt it down to ashes.
Karen then sends Andy to walk past the
presumed dead killer doll to get the first
aid kit, by himself. How about Mike gets off
his ass and you all make sure Chucky is 100%
dead before sending Andy off to get
Mike a dora the explorer band aid.
Surprise surprise, the magic doll
you crisped up a bit isn’t dead.
Say what you want about the Good Guys company, but
they sure do know how to make a durable doll.
Blowing Chucky into pieces is effective
at incapacitating him, but again,
she needs to vaporize the doll.
It’s obvious now that the magic
and Charle’s soul will persist
until it’s gone completely.
Mike’s detective friend shows up, casually
waltzing into the apartment after hearing
all those gunshots pop off. He’s understandably
in disbelief, it’s not like they had body cams,
but he gets his introduction to
Chucky’s rage soon enough.
I still don’t understand how a blown to pieces
doll has enough strength to fight an adult
human. It’s missing an arm and a leg too, it
shouldn’t have any leverage to hold on with.
Magic voodoo, how does it even work.
Karen finally remembers what the
voodoo doc said.
The movie ends with them
leaving the scene to go to a hospital.